Screen Size
-----------

According to [the E Ink Customer Showcase][eink-customers], the reMarkable
2 uses a [10.3″ E Ink Carta Display][10.3-carta].  The specs for that
display say it has a 157.25 mm × 209.66 mm active area (6.1909″ ×
8.2543″), so that's the size targeted by these templates.

  [eink-customers]: https://www.eink.com/reading-writing.html?type=application&id=2
  [10.3-carta]: https://www.eink.com/product.html?type=productdetail&id=7

Since the display is 1404x1872 pixels, that gives roughly 226.785 DPI.
(Horizontal DPI is 226.78 and vertical DPI is 226.79.)

It's unclear whether the reMarkable 1 uses the exact same display, but the
pixel resolution is identical and the size appears to be the same, so we
can treat it identically to the reMarkable 2.

### Exported Files

It's interesting to compare the official size to the files exported by the
reMarkable.  All numbers below were as exported by firmware 2.8.

#### SVG Export

The exported SVGs do not specify a unit for their dimensions, which mean
they use the SVG default of 1 == 1px == 1/96th of 1in.  This gives some
rather nonsensical size results.

| Measurement             | Value  |
|-------------------------|--------|
| DPI                     |     96 |
| Width (px)              |   1404 |
| Height (px)             |   1872 |
| Width (in, calculated)  | 14.625 |
| Height (in, calculated) | 19.500 |

#### PNG Export

The exported PNGs are 1404×1872, naturally, with a DPI of 227.99.

| Measurement             | Value  |
|-------------------------|--------|
| DPI                     | 227.99 |
| Width (px)              |   1404 |
| Height (px)             |   1872 |
| Width (in, calculated)  | 6.1582 |
| Height (in, calculated) | 8.2109 |

#### PDF Export

The exported PDFs have a media box of 445×594 points, which gives:

| Measurement             | Value  |
|-------------------------|--------|
| PPI                     |     72 |
| Width (pt)              |    445 |
| Height (pt)             |    594 |
| Width (in, calculated)  | 6.1806 |
| Height (in, calculated) | 8.2500 |

#### Export Formats, Conclusion

The PDF export seems to be the one closest in size to the actual screen.


TOML Source Files
-----------------

The template images are generated by the `draw-template.py` program using
TOML templates.  The template for the imperial portrait grid looks roughly
like this:

```toml
[screen]
width.mm = 157.25
height.mm = 209.66
width.px = 1404
height.px = 1872

[lines]
grid_outline.in = 0.015
grid_major.in = 0.010
grid_minor.in = 0.005
header_outline.in = 0.010
footer_line.in = 0.010
bg_color = 'white'
line_color = '#B0B0B0'

[layout]
orientation = "portrait"
header_height.in = 0.25
header_margin.in = 0.125
header_date_width.in = 1.5
grid_width.in = 5
grid_height.in = 7
grid_major.in = 1
grid_minor.in = 0.125
footer_spacing.in = 0.25
```

The `screen` section describes the reMarkable's screen, the `lines`
section has basic drawing primitives, and the `layout` section describes
the positioning of the various elements.

The distance-related measurements indicate their units via "extensions"
for the keys.  Valid units include:

 * `in` for inches (as in the example above)
 * `cm` for centimeters
 * `mm` for millimeters
 * `px` for pixels

The `width` and `height` keys in the `screen` section must have a `px`
value and one other distance value.  (The program uses those two values to
calculate the pixel density and positioning of elements on the template.)

Distance settings in the `lines` and `layout` sections may use any valid
unit.  Pixel values will not be adjusted for the screen's pixel density;
all other units will be.  The effects of providing more than one unit for
the same setting are undefined.

The template data may also be split across multiple files.  If you pass
multiple files to `draw-template.py`, files later on the command line will
override earlier files.
